Thank you.
who could use more coffee.
Oh, you look like a man
Keep it coming.
my monthly ops report.
I'm working on
the last few weeks on this ship,
So much has happened in
I'm going to be up
all night.
This firenut blend
should keep your eyes open.
( chuckles )
Potent stuff. Thanks.
Yes.
Neelix.
I know you have your hands
full this evening,
but I could use your help.
At your service,
Commander.
We're approaching
a class-1 nebula.
Sensors are picking up traces
of protomatter inside.
dealt with it before.
I understand you've
making my living as a trader.
Absolutely, when I was
Protomatter's one of the most
sought-after commodities.
It's the best energy source
in the Quadrant.
Well, we could use
your expertise
in collecting a sample.
We're leaving at 1400.
See you in the shuttle bay?
I'll be there, sir.
These nutritional supplements
are unacceptable.
What's wrong?
They are pungent.
That's the whole idea.
I've been adding
Talaxian spices
to broaden your palate.
sufficiently broad.
My palate is
Why settle for
"sufficient"?
The doctor tells me
you have a full complement
of taste buds.
You've hardly begun
to use them.
Come by the Mess Hall
Thursday night.
It's the first day of Prixin.
We'll have an impressive array
of exotic cuisine.
Prixin?
The Talaxian celebration
of family.
We observe it every year
on Voyager.
part of the family...
Now that you're
What should I do
to prepare?
Nothing.
It's not a mission, Seven.
( com link chirps )
It's a party.
Ensign Wildman to Neelix.
SAMANTHA:
SAMANTHA: I hate to bother you,
Uh, Neelix here.
but Naomi's having trouble
getting to sleep again.
Would you mind?
No bother at all.
I'm on my way.
If you'll excuse me,
duty calls.
"Naomi"... I don't recall
that designation
on the crew manifest.
That's because she's not
a member of the crew.
Naomi was the first child
born on Voyager.
I'm her godfather,
and the only one that can
get her to sleep lately.
Bon appetit.
( sighing )
No monsters here.
Good.
Check the replicator.
( grunts )
Ah. Nothing.
should check your room
Naomi, maybe Neelix
so you can go to bed.
Okay.
In there.
Nobody here.
There.
Ah, there's not
a monster in sight.
Can you stay longer?
I'm afraid to go to sleep.
Honey, Neelix has
to go to work.
Oh, it's all right.
when I'm afraid to go to sleep?
You know what I think about
No. What?
NAOMI:
The Great Forest.
What's that?
It's a place my people believe
we're all going to go to
someday.
It's a beautiful, beautiful
forest filled with sunlight,
and all the people who ever
loved me are gathered there
to watch over me as I sleep,
to protect me.
Really?
NAOMI:
Mm-hmm, and when I think about
that forest and those people,
I'm not afraid to sleep anymore.
Do you think those people
watch over me too?
I know they do.
for the next couple of days,
Now, I'm going to be away
so if you're afraid to sleep,
of that Great Forest.
I want you to think
All right.
Pleasant dreams.
Night, Neelix.
NAOMI:
Thank you.
Cylinder...
( clanking )
Oh!
Sorry.
I didn't realize you were home.
I was regenerating.
I see.
Do you require assistance?
I have a small
No, no, no,
containment cylinder
stored here.
I'll just be a minute.
Cylinder...
Little cylinder, where are you?
Cylinder, you were here
a month ago.
Now, I know you
didn't just roll
out of the airlock
all by yourself.
Now, where are you?
Oh...
( laughing ):
I'm sorry.
my way of remembering things.
I'm talking to myself. It's
You are a peculiar creature,
Neelix.
Thanks.
I think.
Ah! Here it is.
Oh, this will be perfect
a small amount of protomatter.
for containing
this little wonder,
Last time I used
I nearly lost it to the Kazon.
The Kazon...species 329.
You're familiar with them.
The Borg encountered
a Kazon colony
in the Gand Sector.
Grid 6920.
Were they assimilated?
technological distinctiveness
Their biological and
was unremarkable.
They were unworthy
of assimilation.
I didn't realize the Borg
were so discriminating.
Why assimilate a species
that would detract
from perfection?
Good point.
Well, um, if you'll excuse me,
I'm needed in the shuttle bay.
Pleasant...
regenerating.
( dramatic theme playing )
One day a week,
that's all I ask.
How hard can it be?
Harder than you think.
Neelix, it's pizza!
Bread, tomatoes, cheese.
The cheese alone
would take days.
Separating curds and whey
from synthesized milk--
So replicate the cheese!
It's a delicate process.
Since it means so much to you,
I'll see what I can do.
Thanks.
( console beeping )
There's a concentration
of protomatter directly ahead.
Neelix?
Set the transporter
for 10,000 AMUs.
Not a particle more.
The containment field
is standing by.
PARIS:
We're in range.
Energizing.
What happened?
ignited the protomatter.
The transporter beam
Shields are weakening.
Disengage transport.
PARIS:
Shields are down!
I've got the sample, Commander,
and it's stable.
Let's get out of--
( groaning )
We're clear of the protomatter.
How's Neelix?
( tricorder sounding
steady tone )
( exhales )
He's dead.
( triumphant theme playing )
No heartbeat.
No synaptic response.
Extensive cell damage
to his brain.
Try a cortical stimulator.
It won't work.
( rumble )
disrupted by the protomatter.
His neural pathways were
for an autonomic bypass.
Set the stimulator
At least, we can get
his vitals going.
The damage was too severe.
It's too late for that.
(rumble )
We're running into
more protomatter.
I need your help.
Stardate 51449.2.
Captain's Log,
JANEWAY:
After receiving a distress call
from Commander Chakotay,
we've sent a beacon
into the nebula
tracking down the away team.
and we're in the process of
Captain, I'm detecting
a shuttle.
Hail them.
JANEWAY:
No response.
TUVOK:
The shuttle's primary
systems are off-line.
Life signs, only two.
transporter range?
Are they within
Beam them
directly to Sickbay.
Affirmative.
Harry, put a tractor
on the shuttlecraft.
Tuvok, you've got
the Bridge.
postmortem analysis.
I ran a complete
you could have done.
There was nothing
I knew we were too close
to the protomatter.
said something.
I should have
predicted this, Tom.
Nobody could have
How shall I...
proceed?
their dead for a full week
The Talaxians mourn
burial ceremony.
in a specific
And that's just what
we're going to do.
I'll inform the crew.
I'll check Neelix's
personal database,
see what I can find out
about the ceremony.
in the Mess Hall.
We'll have it
Somehow that feels
appropriate.
Neelix is dead.
I'm afraid so.
His neural pathways--
are they intact?
DOCTOR:
Yes,
no metabolic activity.
but there's
How long has he been dead?
How long?
Seven, I understand--
It's been 18 hours.
PARIS:
Then it's not too late
to reactivate him.
What are you saying--
Neelix back to life?
that you can bring
That's precisely
what I'm saying.
assimilated species
The Borg have
with far greater medical
knowledge than your own.
reactivating drones
We are capable of
what you would call "death."
as much as 73 hours after
Neelix wasn't a Borg drone.
We will adapt.
What does this procedure
involve?
Nanoprobes are used
to reverse
cellular necrosis,
while the cerebral cortex
is stimulated
with a neuroelectric
iso-pulse.
But there's nothing
left to stimulate.
His brain functions
are gone.
By your narrow definition
perhaps, but not by mine.
You will extract
70 micrograms of nanoprobes
from my bloodstream.
I will modify them
to match
his Talaxian physiology.
His function in this crew
is diverse.
If you wish to salvage him,
we must proceed immediately.
I say we let her try.
Hold on a minute, Tom,
please.
No one's ever been resuscitated
after being dead for 18 hours.
If this procedure does work,
what are the chances that Neelix
would come out of it unaffected?
She's right.
The damage to his cerebral
cortex was severe.
The nanoprobes will compensate
for any cellular degradation.
has to be made, quickly.
Captain, a decision
whatever assistance she needs.
Doctor, give Seven
Proceed.
Captain...
JANEWAY: Do it.
we can revive Neelix,
If there's a chance
we've got to take it.
Keep me informed.
( dramatic theme playing )
( console beeping )
The nanoprobes are ready.
We should begin.
Hold on, I want to check
his blood viscosity.
sufficiently prepared.
The cadaver has been
And they say I have
a lousy bedside manner.
Set neuroelectric iso-pulses
for one-second intervals.
( doctor sighing )
( beeping )
Ready.
Now.
( bio-bed beeping )
at nine percent...
Neural activity
10 percent...
This is incredible!
12 percent.
His intracerebral
blood pressure,
his synaptic responses--
they're all returning
to normal.
The alveoli in his lung
are regenerating.
They should be functional...
...now.
( Neelix gasping deeply )
Neural activity at
52 percent and rising.
( grunting softly )
His neurotransmitter
levels
are rising too fast.
We must stabilize
his motor neurons.
I'm going to try reducing
his acetylcholine levels.
It might be enough to--
NEELIX: Doctor...
Neelix.
What...happened?
What happened?
Why am...
Why am I here?
( dramatic theme playing )
Dead.
For 18 hours,
49 minutes,
13 seconds.
Congratulations,
Mr. Neelix.
a new world record.
You've just set
That's impossible.
I lost consciousness.
You mean,
I was in a coma.
I-I was--
No. You were dead.
I'm stunned.
I'm amazed.
Thank you, doctor.
I-I'm grateful.
thank Seven of Nine.
Actually, you can
The procedure
was her idea.
Yours?
the technique from species 149.
The Borg assimilated
I simply modified it.
But you are welcome.
Am I good as new?
That remains to be seen.
There's no way to tell
if your body
take over the functions
will successfully
the nanoprobes
are serving.
Nanoprobes?
It was necessary
the necrotized tissue.
to repair
Until I'm certain
the damaged tissue
can function independently,
you'll have to be injected
on a daily basis.
with nanoprobes
Well, as long as I don't start,
uh, assimilating the crew
or sprouting Borg implants...
I can live with it.
I'm sure
I'm releasing you
to your quarters.
Your body's
been through quite a shock,
so try to get
some rest.
Report to Sickbay
tomorrow morning
your next injection.
at 0800 hours for
( dramatic theme playing )
( door opens, closes )
The shuttle mission,
was it a success?
the protomatter?
Did we get
I'm afraid not.
The sample you collected
destabilized
before it got back
to Voyager.
Ugh. The containment field needs
to be reinforced next time.
If there is a next time.
I've asked Chakotay
to find out exactly
what caused the accident,
and unless we can take
additional precautions,
I'm not sending another team
into that nebula.
that investigation.
I could help with
No. You are taking
some time off,
No, Captain, please,
and that's an order.
any special treatment.
I don't need
returned from the dead.
Neelix, you've just
Go easy on yourself.
I suppose you're right.
But you can't ask me to cancel
the first night of Prixin.
is in three days.
The celebration
Oh, I almost forgot.
I've been aging fruit compote
in moolt nectar for weeks now.
I-I can't just let it
go to waste.
Only if you feel up to it.
Oh...
But could you not ferment those
compotes so long this time?
I got a little lightheaded.
Because last year,
the necessary adjustments.
I'll make
to have you back.
It's good
It's good to be back,
Captain.
( dramatic theme playing )
Alixia?
Why weren't you there?
Human attitudes toward death
are perplexing.
How so?
Too much importance
is placed on it.
rituals and cultural beliefs
There seem to be countless
designed to alleviate their fear
of a simple, biological truth.
eventually perish.
All organisms
I take it the Borg have no fear
of that biological truth.
beyond repair, it is discarded,
None. When a drone is damaged
but its memories continue
to exist
collective consciousness.
in the
the Borg are "immortal."
To use a human term,
part of the collective.
You are no longer
You are mortal now,
like the rest of us.
Does that disturb you?
My connection to the Borg
has been severed,
possesses my recollections,
but the collective still
my experiences.
I will always exist.
In a sense,
Fascinating.
That must be a great relief.
Yes.
It is.
I've sealed the fractures
in the shuttle nacelle.
The rest of the repairs
should be completed by morning.
How are you coming?
Good.
I found a small
phase variance
transporter logs.
in the
I think it was
responsible
the protomatter.
for igniting
I've remodulated the transporter
beam to compensate.
( beeps )
Good work.
I'll be in Holodeck 2.
I've created a simulation
of the shuttle accident
to see if there's anything
we've overlooked.
( dramatic theme playing )
I thought you might need
Commander. Commander,
some assistance on
the holodeck.
If you're feeling up to it.
Well, I'm up to anything
at this point.
for two days straight,
I've been resting
feel, well, restless.
and resting makes me
( chuckles )
I've programmed
the simulation
to start when we found
the protomatter.
the containment field readings?
Why don't you monitor
Gladly.
( console beeping)
Computer, display
shuttle crew,
and begin program.
excluding myself,
There's a concentration
of protomatter directly ahead.
Set the transporter
for 10,000 AMUs.
Not a particle more.
The containment field
is standing by.
We're in range.
( rumble )
ignited the protomatter.
The transporter beam
freeze program.
Computer,
It looks like there
was a problem
with the pattern buffer.
It might have created
a feedback loop
transporter beam.
along the
Sounds right.
an eye on it.
Let's keep
at the moment of impact.
See what happened
resume program.
Computer,
( rumble )
Shields are weakening.
Shields are down!
I've got the sample, Commander,
and it's stable.
Let's get out of--
( groaning )
freeze program.
Computer,
( dramatic theme playing )
Nothing.
What?
and there was nothing.
I died,
There was no one there.
No forest.
Forest?
The Great Forest.
The afterlife.
that when I died,
I was taught
my ancestors would be there
by the Guiding Tree.
waiting for me
and father, my cousins...
My sisters, my mother
everyone who was killed
in the war.
( shudders )
I took great comfort
be together again one day,
in knowing that we'd all
but it's not true.
Maybe we pulled you back
before any of that
could happen.
No.
I was dead for 18 hours.
I should have...
I should remember something!
...experienced something.
It's just a story.
A myth.
There is no Guiding Tree.
of the ancestors.
No gathering
You can't be certain
of that.
a lifetime of faith
Don't throw away
anomalous incident.
because of one
Death is still the greatest
mystery there is.
I was there.
I experienced it.
There was nothing.
Computer, delete characters.
( computer beeps )
That's what's going to happen
to all of us.
Like a hologram, we just...
disappear into nothing.
( chatting indistinctly )
( mellow theme playing )
Attention.
TUVOK:
everyone's attention.
If I may have
( people continue chatting
indistinctly )
You might wanna try the old
"glass and spoon" approach.
"Glass and spoon"?
Excuse me.
( chatting ceases )
Thank you.
Welcome to the first night
of Prixin,
the Talaxian observance
of familial allegiance.
Mr. Neelix has requested
This year,
commence the celebration
that I
with the traditional
salutation.
"We do not stand alone.
"We are in the arms of family.
"Father, mother,
"sister, brother,
"father's father,
"father's mother,
"father's brother,
"mother's brother...
fath..."
the list is extensive.
Suffice to say,
( light chuckling )
"We gather on this day
to extol the warmth and joy
"of those unshakable bonds.
"Without them, we could not
call ourselves complete.
we are thankful to be together.
"On this day,
We do not stand alone."
Indeed, we do not.
JANEWAY:
MAN: Here, here.
( applause )
A few days ago, we almost lost
a member of our family.
the rest of you feel,
I don't know how
the hell out of me.
but it scared
Neelix,
how to make a pizza...
you still don't know
...but I'm glad you're here.
( laughter )
So am I.
Here's to you, Neelix.
( crowd toasting Neelix )
( dramatic theme playing )
( applause )
Speech.
MAN:
Well...
Thank you, everyone.
( gasps )
...enjoy.
( crowd chuckles )
Computer, music.
( computer beeping )
( people chatting indistinctly )
( soft music plays )
You all right?
Fine, Commander, fine.
I apologize for the other day
on the holodeck.
I guess this whole "back
from the dead" thing
is hard to get used to.
I'm fine now.
If you ever wanna talk,
you know where to find me.
Having fun?
No.
That's probably
standing here by yourself.
because you've been
the rules and procedures
I don't understand
for this type of...
social occasion.
The rules are simple.
Choose a group
of people.
their conversation.
Listen to
Then when you feel
like you have something
to contribute, chime in.
"Chime in"?
You say something.
Join the discussion.
I will try, Captain.
( sighs ):
The early stages of Ktarian
development are astounding.
Naomi has grown five centimeters
since her last physical
and that was only
three weeks ago.
It seems like every time
I turn around,
I'm recycling her clothes
back into the replicator.
Children assimilated
by the Borg
are placed
in maturation chambers
for 17 cycles.
Interesting.
Well, if you'll excuse me,
I need to go talk to Neelix.
maturation chambers,
In these
conversational skills
the development of
a low priority?
is, I suppose,
SAMANTHA: Neelix.
Oh!
SAMANTHA: I'm sorry.
( tray clangs )
it's all right.
No, no, no,
We haven't seen you
in a few days.
a little preoccupied.
I've been
I understand.
Naomi's been asking
about you.
Really?
She misses you,
and, frankly, so do I.
She's had trouble sleeping
every night this week.
can tuck me in."
"Only Neelix
"I want Neelix."
Heh, it sounds familiar.
Maybe you could stop by
later just to say hello.
Why don't--
Why don't I go now?
Naomi's bedtime.
It's close to
Are you sure?
your favorite holiday.
Prixin's
Yes, but duty calls.
all monsters.
Attention,
Get out of this room!
My bed!
no monsters here.
Oh, there's
Aah! It's a monster!
Scared you!
Hee-hee!
You certainly did.
Heh, heh.
Pleasant dreams,
sweeting.
Can you stay longer?
the Great Forest again.
I want to hear about
NAOMI: The special place.
The Great Forest?
The place you think about
when you can't sleep.
Are you sure you want
to hear about that?
It's just a silly old story.
Please.
( dramatic theme playing )
Well...
it's a beautiful place,
filled with sunlight...
And all the people
who ever loved me.
Yes. They've all
gathered there...
to watch over you,
while you sleep.
to protect you
the Great Forest last night.
I had a dream about
You did?
There was trees,
and grass,
and animals.
And I saw you and Mommy,
and we were all happy.
Sounds like a nice dream.
It was beautiful.
NAOMI:
( door opens )
The doctor asked me
to run a hematological scan.
Why?
To regulate the dosage
of nanoprobes
for your next injection.
( beeping )
Go ahead.
be needing these injections?
How much longer will I
can function on their own.
Until your damaged cells
the idea of Borg technology
I don't really like
swimming around inside me.
That is irrelevant.
You need the nanoprobes
to live.
"Live"?
Oh, is that what I am doing
right now, living?
I'm beginning to wonder.
By most definitions,
you are alive.
Well, part of me
isn't alive.
Which part
are you referring to?
but something is missing.
I don't know,
like Neelix anymore.
I don't feel
Maybe Neelix is gone.
and I'm all that's left.
Maybe he died,
Stop moving, and allow me
to complete the scan.
to be brought back!
I-I didn't ask
You were dead at the time.
Well, what right did you have
to violate me?
you can fix anything,
You Borg think
but you didn't fix me!
There was no alternative.
Just get out.
Just leave me alone!
I said get out!
I would be negligent in
my duties if I did that.
I don't care about
your duties!
I don't care--
( gasping )
( dramatic theme playing )
( groaning )
( instruments beeping )
( gasps )
What's happening to me?
What's...
( choking )
Your cells are reverting
to a necrotic state.
We must get you to Sickbay.
rejecting the nanoprobes,
His tissue began
causing spontaneous necrosis
throughout his body.
We modified the nanoprobes
to compensate
and it appears to be working.
Neelix is stable...
for now.
this won't happen again?
How do we know
We don't. I've designed
a monitor for Neelix to wear
that will alert us
at the first sign of necrosis,
and we'll continue
with the daily injections.
Beyond that,
I'm afraid it's a...
matter of maintenance.
He may have to live with
this condition
for the rest of his life.
with you, Commander.
He wants to speak
if I ever needed anything.
Commander...you said
your people had technology
You once told me
a deep meditation,
that can induce
an altered state of
consciousness.
The akoonah.
That this device allows you
to look inside yourself,
ask questions that you might
otherwise be afraid to ask.
That's right.
That's what I need.
I need to look inside
myself...
what's happening to me.
figure out
I need answers.
Will you help me, Commander?
All right...
but I want you to understand
the vision quest isn't
a quick fix.
to interpret the images,
It'll take time
and there's no guarantee
what you're looking for.
you'll find
I understand.
What should I do to prepare?
You'll need a medicine bundle.
things that will ground you,
Items that define you,
allow you to take the journey
into yourself.
I'll get ready.
This belonged to
my sister, Alixia.
She made it during
our expedition
the Dunes of Talmouth.
to
A flower from Kes' garden.
And last, but not least,
the Guiding Tree.
It stands at the center of
Talaxian afterlife,
the Great Forest.
deep inside
It's there to help us
find our way
when we first arrive.
At least, that's what
I used to believe.
medicine bundle, is it?
Not a very impressive
It'll do fine.
Now, place your hand
on the akoonah.
( beeping )
Am I doing this right?
Try to relax.
Clear your mind of everything
but the objects before you.
Focus on them.
Nothing else exists.
( dramatic theme playing )
Ah-koo-chee-moya.
We are far
from the sacred places
of our grandfathers.
We are far
from the bones of our people.
We come here
seeking guidance.
It's time, Neelix.
Try to leave this room,
this ship...
and go to a place
where you were
the most peaceful and content
you have ever been.
That's where your journey
will begin.
( people chatting indistinctly )
to have you back.
Neelix...good
It's-it's good to be
back, Lieutenant.
Alixia?
Alixia, it's me, Neelix!
Over here.
Captain!
My sister--
She was just standing here
talking to you.
The dead girl.
Oh, yes. Very charming.
the family resemblance.
I can see
Alixia!
You will be
assimilated.
No time for that now.
Maybe later.
Potent stuff.
It's... It's beautiful.
always imagined it would be.
Yes. It's just like you
The trees, the sunlight,
who ever loved you.
and all the people
When I died, I looked for you,
but you weren't there.
Why weren't you there?
Because it's all a lie.
What do you mean?
You've wasted your entire life
believing lies.
The Great Forest.
The afterlife.
out of your fear of death.
It's all created
None of it's real.
what's the point of living?
If that's true,
There isn't any.
That's what
you're finally
starting to realize.
I'm afraid to go to sleep.
( in Naomi's voice ):
Tell me about the Great Forest,
Neelix.
Tell me about the trees
and the grass
and all the people
who loved you.
Why are you saying
these things?
( Naomi's voice ):
Scared you!
( gasping )
( thunder rumbles )
( eerie animal calls )
shuttlecraft, Neelix.
You died on that
They never should have
brought you back.
It was a mistake,
and you know it.
Now accept it.
You know what you have to do.
No.
It's all a lie.
They lied to you.
You know what you have to do.
to tell Neelix what he must do.
We gather on this day
You stand alone.
Life is irrelevant.
Let go.
It's pointless.
It's a lie.
You know what you have to do.
( screaming ):
No!
( shudders )
SEVEN:
Neelix.
Oh, there you are.
I didn't see you.
Are you looking
for me?
Yes, as a matter
of fact, I am.
disturbing you.
I hope I'm not
You are not.
I...
my outburst the other day
I want to apologize for
in the Mess Hall.
No apology is necessary.
my behavior was uncalled for.
No. No, please,
the things I said.
I didn't mean
I wasn't myself.
But I feel much better now.
Commander Chakotay
has helped me to...
understand a few things.
I want you to know
that I don't blame you
for bringing me back.
To life, I mean.
In fact, what you did
was very thoughtful.
for any member of this crew.
I would have done the same
you would have.
Yes. I'm sure
something else?
Is there
No.
Yes.
Seven, I think you've made
a wonderful addition
to this crew.
I know it's been
difficult for you
from Borg back to human.
making the transition
Or half human.
Or whatever it is
you've become.
just plain Seven to me.
Actually, you're
Your point, Mr. Neelix.
I guess I just want to say...
you're surrounded
by people
who care about you.
And whether you
know it or not,
a very good home to you.
Voyager is going to be
It certainly was to me.
Was?
Do you intend to leave?
No. I'll be around.
Leave?
Well...
...good-bye.
Good-bye.
( dramatic theme playing )
( door opens, closes )
What happened to you
this morning?
I'm sorry I had to cancel
our little chat,
but I was needed
in the Mess Hall.
the last few days,
I've been so busy
I let things slip
around here.
You're not holding up
your end of the bargain.
What do you mean?
When you asked me to guide you
on a vision quest, I agreed,
but I also told you it was part
of an ongoing process.
We're supposed to be
discussing your progress.
What's left to say?
I've told you--
I saw my sister,
the Great Forest.
I feel a sense of peace
I've never felt
in my entire life.
It worked.
You've only lived
with the visions
for a couple of days.
That's not enough time
to draw any conclusions.
You've got to reflect
on the images, examine them.
Allow them to stay alive
in your mind.
A vision quest isn't just
a dream you dismiss
after your first
cup of coffee.
I understand.
Good.
I get off duty
at 1400 hours.
Meet me in my quarters
and we'll begin.
That's an order.
Yes, sir.
( door opens, closes )
( somber theme playing )
Computer, lights off.
( computer beeps )
And finally, Mr. Tuvok...
I'm grateful for the opportunity
I had to win your respect.
Your strength and your wisdom
were an inspiration to me,
that your memory of me
and I can only hope
will serve to inspire you
in some way.
It was an honor to spend my last
years on Voyager with this crew.
I want to thank all of you
for your kindness and
companionship.
( computer beeps )
Good-bye.
and code for delivery
Computer, end log
to Captain Janeway
in one hour.
( computer beeps )
( beeping )
( console beeping )
Captain, someone's trying
to initiate
an unauthorized
transport.
It's Neelix.
Where's he going?
to beam into the nebula.
Looks like he's trying
Stop him.
Janeway to Neelix.
Neelix, respond.
to disengage transport.
Neelix, I order you
to block the abort sequence.
He's found a way
Transport's in progress.
Override it! Get him back!
( suspenseful theme playing )
KIM: Bridge to Chakotay.
( com link beeps )
his transporter signal.
We've blocked
but you can't stop me.
You can slow me down,
What are you trying to do?
I'm going back where I belong.
You belong here, Neelix.
I died in that nebula!
Not anymore.
You should've left me!
Neelix...
No closer!
a site-to-site transport.
I've created
No one can override
the signal.
you were at peace.
You told me
as soon as I tap this control.
I will be...
in your vision quest?
What really happened
What did you see?
My sister, the crew, myself.
They all told me
the same thing--
There's no point in living.
And I agree with them.
those were powerful images,
I'm sure
but there are many ways
to interpret them.
You may be coming face-to-face
with your own fear of death.
Or the manifestation
of your emotional crisis.
Your deepest beliefs
have been thrown into doubt.
It's only natural the vision
quest would reflect that.
I saw my world in ruins...
Eleven years ago,
...my family murdered.
All that's kept me going
is knowing that one day
we'd be together again.
That I'd see them again.
But it's not true.
And I can't...live
without that hope.
I understand how this
the way you look at things,
can change
lead to an even stronger faith.
but it can also
You don't know.
You're not there yet.
( com link beeps )
Ensign Wildman to Neelix.
SAMANTHA:
Answer her!
Neelix, please respond.
No.
back to your life again, Neelix.
You're being called
Don't turn
your back on it.
We're your family now.
It's not enough.
It is for us.
"His function on this crew
is diverse."
That's what Seven of Nine
said about you.
Even our Borg understands
how important
you are on this ship.
It's not just the duties
you perform.
It's the way you make people
feel when you're around.
That Neelix is gone.
I don't think he is.
Why didn't you
answer me?
I had to have the computer
track you down.
a monster in the replicator.
Naomi thought she saw
Neelix, what's going on?
I'm trying to decide
some things.
needs you, Neelix.
That little girl
Monsters in the replicator?
Who else on this ship
can handle that?
( gulps )
( dramatic theme playing )
Duty calls.
Good night, sir.
He says good night.
Good night, Naomi.
Good night.
What's the matter?
you were sick.
Mommy says
I was, but I'm okay now.
Did a monster
get you?
Yes, I suppose so.
But I chased him away.
Pleasant dreams.
( tranquil theme playing )
( triumphant theme playing )